---
layout: page
title: ReleaseNotes094100
toc: true
---

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
| v09.41.00 | 23 Dec 2021 | [ReleaseNotes](ReleaseNotes094100.html) |
| --- | --- | --- |



sbndcode v09_41_00 Release Notes
=======================================================================================

[List of sbndcode releases](List_of_SBND_code_releases.html)

Download instructions for [sbndcode v09_41_00](http://scisoft.fnal.gov/scisoft/bundles/sbnd/v09_41_00/sbndcode-v09_41_00.html)

Purpose
---------------------------------------------------

* Weekly release

New features
---------------------------------------------------

* sbndcode PR 242:
  * Greenlee pid update
  * Update AnalysisTree to accommodate new ParticleID data product.

* sbndcode PR 244:
  * CAF Test Updates
  * Some required updates to correct the reference file updating procedure for the CAF tests.
  * Also taking the opportunity to increase the number of universes used in the weighting system (due to speed improvements made to this mechanism) and to update the resource usage for the nucosmics test.

* sbndcode PR 245:
  * Change voxelization scheme for hybrid model
  * This PR changes the voxelization scheme used by the optical library (hybrid mode). The voxel boundaries in the previous library didn’t match the active volume edges (mismatch ~4 cm). This can lead to an overestimation in the number of detected photons produced by pdfastsimout.
  * A new library using a redefined voxelization scheme has been generated by @ggamezdiego. The wrong visibilities reported in issue #243 were fixed by hand (taking advantage of the detector symmetry along the drift direction).
  * The optical library has been updated in sbnd_data v01_11_00.

Bug fixes
---------------------------------------------------

Updated dependencies
---------------------------------------------------

* sbnd_data v01_11_00
* sbncode v09_41_00
* larsoft v09_41_00

Change List
==========================================

sbndcode
---------------------------------------------------

* 2021-12-23  Patrick Green : Merge branch 'release/v09_41_00'
* 2021-12-23  Patrick Green : Update to v09_41_00
* 2021-12-22  Patrick Green : Merge pull request #245 from SBNSoftware/feature/fnicolas_newoplibrary
* 2021-12-22  Patrick Green : Merge pull request #244 from SBNSoftware/feature/hlay_caf_tests
* 2021-12-21  Henry Lay : Update ci_tests.cfg
* 2021-12-21  Henry Lay : Reduce limit on weighting universes
* 2021-12-21  Henry Lay : Due to comparison script change NEVENTS to 5 for CAF tests
* 2021-12-21  Henry Lay : In update builds you also need to ensure that we compare the correct files
* 2021-12-14  Henry Lay : Correct naming structure for CAF ci tests
* 2021-12-21  fran-nicar : Change voxelization scheme for hybrid model
* 2021-12-21  Miquel Nebot : Merge pull request #242 from hgreenlee/greenlee_pid_update
* 2021-12-17  Herbert Greenlee : Merge remote-tracking branch 'origin/develop' into greenlee_pid_update
* 2021-12-17  Herbert Greenlee : Update version.
* 2021-12-17  Patrick Green : Merge tag 'v09_40_00' into develop
* 2021-12-01  Herbert Greenlee : Update AnalysisTree_module.cc.
* 2019-02-06  kduffy : Changes to make AnalysisTree work with new particleID class.

sbndutil
---------------------------------------------------

* 2021-12-23  Patrick Green : Merge tag 'v09_41_00' into develop
* 2021-12-23  Patrick Green : Merge branch 'release/v09_41_00'
* 2021-12-23  Patrick Green : Update to v09_41_00
* 2021-12-17  Patrick Green : Merge tag 'v09_40_00' into develop
